All right, so let's go through these questions that we need to add.
So what is the Hill model equation?
The Hill model equation is the theta with zero IPTG plus delta theta, that's the change
in theta upon binding, upon going to fully saturating IPTG.
That's multiplied by the IPTG concentration raised to the N over the IPTG concentration
raised to the N plus the equilibrium constant raised to the N, where N is the hill coefficient.
The multiple transformation correction math, I'm going to skip for now, but I'll get to
that in a second.
I'm going to add a block that just says there's some math to be done here, let me know.
For the likelihood and noise model, we actually use the student T probability distribution
to account for some possible outliers.
We also actually tried it with normal distribution and saw no huge difference between the two.
We did not actually add specifically, in that we estimated the variance on the distribution
directly.
We did not add any specific noise.
We have our deterministic model of binding, which we then use to attempt to deterministically
reproduce the binding and the growth data without actually adding a specific noise model
to that.
We just infer the variance on the probability distribution as our noise model.
For the lag model selection, we basically did posterior predictive checks formally,
but visually it was very clear that this was the best of the models that we tried.
The models that we tried were an instantaneous transition model, so assuming no lag, a baryony
transition model, which basically has a integrated sigmoidal curve that gives rise to the amount
of time that it takes for a transition.
Then the memory model that we described, that was the best one by far.
I can add a note, actually, to the text to say we're going to add some numbers to support
that, but for now we're just going to say we did the posterior predictive and visual
inspection checks.
How are the logs, if you can compute it from sign sequencing data, yes, let's add that
to the top.
The way that this is done is we did noviceek high throughput sequencing, which gave us
approximately 2.5 billion reads per bioreplicate using barcoding to be able to pool samples
into single reads.
We demultiplexed those reads using standard, actually I'll describe the reads really quickly,
so we did 150 base pair paired end reads on noviceek, so that's 2.5 billion paired end
reads per run.
We demultiplexed from our sequencing core itself, all sequencing was done at the UOGC3F,
that is University of Oregon Genome, actually I don't know what I was saying before, but
it's GC3F Gamma Charlie 3 Foxtrot, the UOGC3F facility, so they ran our sequencing for us
and then demultiplexed.
Once we had the demultiplexed reads, we then assigned reads using the TF screen library.
We used a direct sequencing strategy here, so we were asking could we map our reads back
onto our reference gene, the lacropressor gene, and also ask if we could do base calling.
We did the base calling in a sort of multi-level strategy.
We basically took every base in the read and we looked at its Q score and a Q score less
than 15 was assigned to an N at that position.
We then asked whether this was compatible with a unique gene in our library, so we specified
what was in our library to begin with and asked could we match it to that library to
do our read calling, and we basically allowed no more than one mismatch with the existing
library and if there was ambiguity, meaning that it was one base away from more than one
library, remember we threw the read out, so that was our primary quality control.
We then took this collection of reads and on a per genotype basis asked if we saw that
genotype more than 15 times within a bio-replicant across all of the different read conditions.
This is basically asking whether we truly saw this genotype somewhere in the library.
Once we had that, that gave us a raw count per position, for a raw count per genotype
per condition.
We then converted these counts into frequencies, so within a given population, so a given IPDG
concentration, bio-replicant, pre-selection condition, and post-selection vision that
we could uniquely define each tube that it came from effectively.
We then calculated the frequency of each gene using a pseudo-count strategy.
We added a pseudo-count of one for numerical stability.
We then took these frequencies and multiplied the frequencies by the overall CFU port for
that condition.
We got the CFU for that condition by actually doing the experiment in a biological triplicate
and measuring the OD600 at each bioreplicant and then taking the average across the bioreplicates
to give us an estimate for how the OD600 changed as a function of time in these samples.
We converted the OD600 into a log CFU using a careful plate calibration and polynomial
fitting strategy where we measured OD600 very closely for 25 different conditions, and then
we did serial dilution plating to measure how that mapped to colony forming units.
That allowed us to define a second-order polynomial that allowed us to map from the OD600 to the
CFUs.
Now we have the total CFUs for each tube, and we have the frequency of each genotype
in that.
We multiply those numbers together to get us the absolute CFU for that genotype under
those conditions.
Finally, the last step is to do log conversion to convert those into log CFU as a function
of time.
Then with the In vivo binding data, how did they enter the likelihood?
The way that this worked is we actually had two observations, so we had two likelihood
terms.
One likelihood term using a student T for the growth data.
Our second likelihood term is a normal distribution for the binding curves, both go in at the
same time.
We did not use these to set priors.
The priors were previously existing.
We did have those.
We had very tight uncertainties on these values experimentally, so the likelihood function
was quite sharp around the correct theta for each of these in vitro binding data.
Another feature of this is that we made sure, since we're using SVI, we're having to sample,
we used a batch size of 1024.
We found empirically that that gave us the best outcomes.
We're looking at 1,024 genotypes per run.
We also included the genotypes which measured theta in every single batch.
Actually, I'll say what those genotypes are.
The genotypes were wild type, M42I, H74A, K84L.
We included those in every single batch, those four genotypes.
We had 1,020 library genotypes and these four in every single genotype.
Then we used JAX's internal tools to weight them correctly so that we got a correct likelihood
weight.
We were basically oversampling on these genotypes so we make sure they have a lower weight in
the final analysis.
Then I'll get to the SVI conversion criteria later, but at some level the primary convergence
criteria was an elbow plateau and then making sure that we saw parameter stability across
different parameter seeds.
Those were the two major mechanisms we used.
