The next part of the model is the biophysical model for transcription vector binding.
So for this what we're doing is we take the standard hill model with a binding constant,
a cooperativity parameter, a bound baseline parameter, and an unoccupied baseline parameter,
and we fit that to each of the fractional occupancy data.
We do this in a hierarchical Bayesian context where we are inferring the prior distributions
for all four of these parameters from the data together.
The last piece of the mapping for the total function is actually a correction that occurs
between that biophysical fractional occupancy calculated with the hill model and the theta
that we feed into our linking function.
That's actually a correction for multiple transformations.
So one of the challenges in a high-throughbrit screen like this is that when we transform
bacteria, most of them pick up one copy of a plasmid, but some pick up more than one.
We empirically measure this and found that our cells pick up a zero truncated Poisson
distribution, pick up most of the time one, a very small fraction of the time two, and
even a smaller fraction of the time three plasmids.
What this correction parameter does is it actually captures the fact that when we look
at the growth rate of a cell or the frequency of a different genotypes going up in the population,
it could be going up because it, in fact, is higher fitness or because that plasmid was
co-transformed with another plasmid that has high fitness, because the amount of protein
in each cell is higher than the amount of DNA, and because this is a repressor, things
that have a higher binding affinity will always win the exhibit a dominance phenotype.
And so what we need to be able to do is correct for that dominance by asking when a frequency
of a gene is going up, is it going up because it's being dragged out by another gene, and
is it going down because it's being dragged down by another gene.
So to correct for this, we have a sampling from the, we take each theta and then we ask
what's the probability that it's sampling from another theta, and we use that to effectively
correct that theta.
So then if we stack all of these models together, we'll start from the bottom, we have a biophysical
model of transcription factor occupancy with things like binding constants and hill coefficients.
Those are things we want to learn.
We take those values, we run them, and we're sampling hierarchically from their priors.
We then take that theta, that occupancy, and we feed it through a correction that accounts
for multiple transformation.
In this case, it has a single parameter lambda that we learned from all of our data all at
once with a prior that we set from externally measured co-transformation lambda, so it puts
on control parameter.
And then we take this corrected theta and we feed it through our linking function.
We then learn those parameters to describe the whole data.
So that's the entire model of stack.
Let's go through the priors that are on each of these model parameters, and so for the
linking function, the growth parameters, so the slope in the precondition, the intercept
in the precondition, the slope in the selection condition, and the growth in the selection
condition, these terms are all used simple priors.
That is because they only occur once, there's one across the whole data set, so there's
no way to learn a collection, learn a hyper, sorry, no way to learn parameters for some
hyperdistribution from this, right?
It's just a single simple parameter.
Likewise, this is true for the tau terms, tau naught, k1, and k2.
These use simple priors because they are single terms that are used for the entire data set.
If we look at the correction for multiple transformations, again we have a single simple
prior on lambda because there's one lambda for the entire data set, so we set that prior
and then go from there.
But then pretty much everything else uses a hierarchical priors situation where we're
learning the prior distribution from the data.
So we set a broad hyper-prior distribution and then we learn the actual distribution
from the data.
So the terms that are used with this kind of prior approach are the delta k genome,
the log CFU naught, the hill coefficient parameters, so k and then the baseline parameters
for that all use a hierarchical Bayesian model.
One last note on the nature of the priors, there's a special case.
We have several genotypes that we spike in at high concentrations.
These include wild type as well as a set of controls where we know what their binding
measurements are.
These spiked genotypes actually use a standard single prior for log CFU naught, their initial
concentration, because their initial concentrations are much different than the rest of the population
and at the same time have their own values, so they're sampled from their own simple priors.
So what kinds of data do we do our fitting on?
So this is this big complicated model, how do we learn it?
So we feed in two types of data into the model.
The first are the data that I already mentioned, these are growth data that we collect in high
throughput.
For our experiment we have 209 mutant cycles corresponding to, I think we get a number,
but something like 210,000 different genotypes that we measure growth as a function of time
in different IPTG, canamison, and 4CP concentrations.
We then take those data and we complement it with some low throughput data which we used
to measure bindings.
We measured the fractional occupancy of different genotypes of the lacropressor to the same
operator in vitro using fluorescence and isotropy.
We then put both of those data into the hierarchical model and then attempt to find parameters or
sample parameters that line up with this.
So how do we actually do that sampling process?
We use a two-stage process.
We first start with a simple maximum aposterior I run, where we run a quick optimization to
get good guesses for the initial parameters.
We do this actually in two stages.
We do one fix, fit where we fit our growth parameters, things like tau and the pre-selection
slope.
So we do a map run on those, pinning every other parameter and fitting a very simple
binding model to everything else, sorry, a simple model, and the idea there is to really
get good initial guesses for those terms.
We then do unconstrained map on all parameters at once to move away from whatever our starting
guesses are, to much better starting guesses.
And then we follow that up with stochastic variance, sorry, stochastic variational inference
SVI, which we then run until we see convergence for multiple things.
We do this multiple times with different seeds to make sure that we see convergent results
on our final outputs.
But at the end of the day, the key thing that we're pulling out are these hill coefficients
K, N, and then the baselines, how much is bound in the absence of IPTG, how much is
bound in the presence of IPTG.
