So I'm thinking through how to write up the computational methods section for an upcoming
paper we're writing about the lack repressor and lack repressor high throughput screen.
So I'm going to just give some random texts, thinking out loud, blathering, talking, and
then let's turn this into a rough draft of the method.
So the output from our experiment is a collection of measured log CFU as a function of IPTG
concentration and as a function of different selective conditions.
Our two selective conditions are phi s and canamycin.
The phi s condition is scans, measures repression because cells will grow best when the lack
repressor is bound to the operator and the canamycin selector measures induction because
cells will grow best when they're inducing the repressor or they're making the repressor
come off the operator.
The goal is to use this combined data to infer the fractional occupancy of the transcription
factor bound to the operator that's in front of both can and sorry can r and phi s.
The way that we go about this is by defining a linking function.
The linking function maps allows us to predict the fractional sorry the log CFU as a function
of time given the occupancy of the transcription factor.
So the core idea of the linking function is that it consists of a map between growth rate
and fractional occupancy that can then be fit using a hierarchical Bayesian approach.
And so overall the math looks like this, we'll see how good the math transcription is here
for Claude, it's the log CFU goes like the log CFU not so the initial CFU for that genotype
plus parentheses, the fractional occupancy which is theta times the slope plus the intercept
plus delta k geno that whole block is in parentheses times the time for the precondition plus tau
at another term that's going to be theta times the slope under selection plus the intercept
under selection plus delta k geno again and parentheses on that and then parentheses
t selection minus tau and parentheses.
This is our core linking model, you'll notice there are theta terms, those are the fractional
occupancies that map to the growth rate in a linear sense.
So basically the slope times theta is how much does increasing theta between zero and
one change the growth rate and then the intercept terms here are just the growth rate when the
operator is completely unoccupied.
Finally delta k geno is the pleiotropic effect of mutations, so if a mutation occurs how
does that affect growth rate independent of fractional occupancy, this captures the fact
that say a mutation that causes the protein to become destabilized might incur a metabolic
fitness effect just because it's a poorly folded protein.
The tau term is the latency or the lag when we're going from our pre-growth conditions
to our selective conditions, sorry call them our pre-selection conditions to our pre-growth
conditions, well sorry let's try that again.
T pre is the time that our cells spend in the pre-selection conditions, T cell is the
amount of time the protein spent in our selective conditions, we're going to measure the log
CFU at different T cell.
The tau term describes the lag in the growth rate going from the pre-condition to the selective
condition.
We tried a number of different models for tau here, we ended up with the following that
tau, the lag, equals tau naught plus k1 over parenthesis k2 plus theta in parenthesis,
so this tau is basically saying that the amount of time that it takes to lag actually depends
on the occupancy, so if something is very tightly occupied, it is repressing expression,
the change will be relatively rapid because you have a larger number on the bottom, whereas
if tau is very zero, it's going to be as fast as possible because there's a large amount
of the product that was expressed.
So that defines the whole linking function, letting us link theta to log CFU.
