So let's add a few more experimental details. So another detail is that we
spiked in an additional four genotypes that we did not include measured values
of theta four, but we did have the measured theta so we can basically check
the quality of our inference by asking whether or not these values had good
estimates. So those genotypes that we included with measured theta but we
didn't include it in the fit were double mutants of M42I H74A, H74I M40, sorry, H74A M42I, sorry, let's
start with this. So we've got M42I H74A, M42I K84L, and then H74A K84L, and then the
triple mutant with all three. So those were included as spiked samples where
we knew their binding constants or their K values but we didn't actually put them
into the estimate. Another control that we did was making sure that we measured
lambda with some frequency and the way that we did that is we transformed
bacteria with eight different plasmids that differed slightly in size but all
shared a single shared restriction enzyme. We then transformed using exactly the
same transformation protocol that we did by even mixture of these plasmids,
extracted plasmids from single colonies, digested the resulting plasmids using the
restriction enzyme, and then random on a gel allowing us to just count how many
plasmids were present by the number of bands that came out on the gel. We did
this for 107 different transformations allowing us to estimate our lambda. We
did that estimate using a maximum likelihood fit of a truncated Poisson
distribution to these values, these data, allowing us to estimate both the lambda
which ended up being 0.4 and the uncertainty on the lambda. So lambda
basically had ranged from 0.1 up to about 0.6. So we used those as priors,
those values from the experiment as priors on our lambda that we
estimated from the actual experiment itself. We had to use zero truncated
Poisson because we're not able to observe cells that don't pick up plasmids,
right? So if a cell doesn't pick up a plasmid, it would die in our selection.
And further, there's a whole bunch of reasons that a cell would have zero
plasmids. So it's actually two different processes. So all we can see are cells
that pick up one, two, three, etc. or more plasmids. Okay, so that's information
about different genotypes about the lambda. I think that's all I'm going to include in this book.
