All right some quick notes on the transformation correction which I kind of
left as vague before. What we did is we empirically built a distribution of
Thetas at every iteration of the model and then integrated this set of theta
values. We then sampled from that distribution and so we could say all
right for a given theta that we have what's the probability given the lambda
and this empirical distribution what's the probability that my particular theta
is being masked by another one. So if theta is very very high for example the
probability of being masked is very low. If theta is very very low the
probability of being masked is higher. Conditioned of course on that lambda the
Poisson parameter there we go brain is falling apart here. Okay so that's how we
did that there I'm actually gonna have to pull up the equation later which I
don't have so again put a pin in that saying we have to add that that data to
that. The other thing I wanted to add into this sort of extra bit is some of
the parameters that we used in the actual SVI run so we use the atom
optimizer which is built into
sorry we used the clipped atom optimizer for SVI that is built into NumPyro and
we use the auto delta optimizer for our map estimates. When we did our run we
used a exponential decay in our step sizes we started with an atom step size
of one times ten to the minus three and reached to a one time ten to the minus
six step size. We did this with two elbow particles and did this for some
number of epochs. I actually don't have the number of epochs on me. We used a
convergence criteria for having the elbow score changed by less than ten to
the minus six over a sliding window of a hundred epochs so we could pair the
first hundred epochs the average elbow and the first hundred epochs the average
elbow and the next set of hundred epochs. We then asked did they both or they
both was the difference between them less than ten to the minus six and then
we did this actually with a patience counterbase. We had to see that for at
least ten times in a row before we decided that the system was converged so
that was looking for convergence during each run. We then looked for convergence
the level of the posterior parameters and I'm actually gonna have to give you the
numbers for that later so we're gonna leave that now off that now.
