So what would it take to predict the effects of mutations on protein function? There are many tools that exist that can predict, say, a mutation that disrupts protein function in their tools that exist that, say, give me sequences that are compatible with a given protein structure. And there are even tools that, for example, can try to map binding to particular interaction. can predict how mutation changes a particular binding interaction. But when you think about protein function, it's a broader phenomenon. A good example of this would be a transcription factor, that binds to DNA and either recruits or inhibits the recruitment of transcriptional machinery, in response to chemical signals. So it has to we have to talk about its function, we have to integrate minimally how good is it at bonding to the small molecule that affects its binding activity to the DNA? And how old does it bind to the DNA itself? Um, if we think about tools that exist to do that, uh, we might imagine uh, training some kind of machine learning model on a bunch of uh, geentific variants of a protein. And what that might allow us to do is make some predictions. If I introduce a mutation at this position, it changes the function in this way. But there are a couple of real problems with that. Uh, the 2 major ones are that often the output of a hydrobit screen is a single number for a protein. So what we're training on isn't a function exactly. We're training on some proxy for function, so maybe, uh, fitness and bacterium or protein stability. And the second problem is that we can never build sequence libraries that are big enough to actually do the sampling. The sequence libraries are really stuck with single mutations and a smattering sample of combined mutations. If mutations just added up, could some additively to give function without any epistasis, this wouldn't be a problem. But of course, epistasis is everywhere. The effect of one mutation changes the effect of another. So, even if we train an amazing model that allows us to predict the effects of single mutations, based on some high rubid data, as soon as we start combining mutations, the ability of that model to function is going to decay. We think we're in a really good place to take a next step towards actualizing the dream of building a model that protects protein function. And we can do that by leveraging existing powerful tools. And specifically, we can do this for transcription factors. So, the reason transcription factors are an attractive starting point is, first of all, that their function can be described in terms of protein stability. What do I mean by that? Well, if we think about a transcription factor as a collection of different confirmations that are all exchanging with one another, and let's make this specific. Let's imagine that this is a repressor that binds to DNA in the absence of its ligand. You have a collection of different confirmations. You've got the bound to DNA form in the repress state. The off of DNA in unrepressed state without liggin bound. And then maybe you have an effector bound confirmation. It's not bound to DNA, and you could even formally have the other combinations, right? There's an innumerable set of protein confirmations that you could use to describe the function of this protein. Or to model the function. And then when you think about the function itself, let's say that's the occupancy of the transcription factor binding site on the genome, the operator, as a function of its allosteric effector. You can calculate that, right? If you know the structures and you know the equilibrium constants, sorry, I guess you don't need instructions. But if you know the equilibrium constants for the system and you know the concentrations of the components, you can then calculate the function, given that information. So, what we could put this down to is what we really are trying to learn for a transcription factor system is what are the equilibrium constants describing the system? How do mutations alter those equilibrium constants? Now, we could just think about these as terms to learn, just trying to learn the equilibrium constants. Um, and, uh, when we start adding up mutations, we're adding a plug, equilibrium constants, uh, maybe we have to add some epistasis in there, but we're trying to think about it at that term. But I would argue that that's not the right level of granularity thing about this problem. And the reason for that is twofold. The 1st is that an equilibrium constant folds together multiple things. I'll talk about in a second. And the 2nd is if we just have a naked equilibrium constant, it's difficult to bring to bear other information on that, right? Um, Let's talk about, to get to both of those. Let's think about what an equilibrium constant actually is. At the end of the day, an equilibrium constant could be written as E to the minus delta G not prime over RT. And what's the delta in that delta G? It's the difference in the free energy of 2 confirmations at standard state. Right? And so if we think about this in terms of, say, a binding reaction, how we often think about this, this would just be what's the difference in the energy of the unbound, the protein and the ligand unbound versus them bound together. That's a structural question, right? A structural, and there's entry involved, so you write entry points, but it's like, the, the microstate ensemble for the unbalanced state versus the balance state, what are the differences between those two? Um, If we think about a reaction, it doesn't involve binding, say, a protein is transitioning between, is, say, a high affinity DNA form and a low DNA affinity form. Now we're just talking about the literal difference in those 2 energies. That's cool, because what that means, if equilibrium constants are what we need to learn how the function, how the function changes, and those can be related to structure on one hand and function on another, we can then think about a combined experiment where we bring together, uh, information about function on one side, and we bring in information about structure on the other, to then ultimately learn these equilibrium constants to describe the system with high precision. And so let's make this concrete for the lack of pressor. So the lack of pressor exists in two different forms, a high affinity form, and a low affinity form for DNA, HD. And this can be approximated. People have shown with experimental things. We're just talking about the equilibrium population of the species, this can be approximated as basically H form, and H form bound to DNA, L form, and L form bound to its effector, allosteric vector. In this case, IPDG. This means that we have four pieces of structural information, four different confirmations we have to worry about, that we can then use to learn the output infrastructure.  
  
So if the task then is to connect structure to equilibrium constant in the equilibrium constant function, to function, what do we need on the structure side? So to do that, there are fantastic new machine learning tools that allow you to ask, basically, the question, is a sequence compatible with a given structure? So, thermal, MPNN, ligand, NPN are, uh, sorry, protein, MPNN, and ligand, MPNN are 2 really good examples of this. You can feed in a structure in a sequence, and get out a series of features that at some level map the difference between those two. And when we were thinking about a confirmational ensemble, like the lack of pressor or an energy landscape, we have, say, 4 different conformations that each must be compatible with the same sequence to define the function. The other thing that's been shown can be successfully done there is transfer learning, where you take the output of one of these neural networks, say, protein and BNN. And then I reweight it, put a neural network in between it and you're observable to reweight it to reproduce, say, binding free energy. So, what we have here is a clear route forward to take sequences as input and structures, sorry, structures is inputs, and map them towards equilibrium constants, right? Calculate the compatibility of a sequence with a structure, turn that into an energy for that structure, take the differences in those energies for the different structures. Those give you the equilibrium constants, within allow you to calculate the function. The question, then, is, what is the training data that goes on the other side? And you think about the problem here. If we just imagine that we measure for individual point mutes, the output of an occupancy versus binding curves, right? So on the X axis, you have IPG, and the Y axis you have occupancy. This is already a challenging measurement to do experimentally, but in principle, it can be done, and it's been done for 100s of thousands of variants, not millions, but a few thousands of variants. If we have that information for individual mutants, the question is, do we have enough information to train equilibrium poses? From a formal number of parameters perspective, maybe, right? We have a binding curve, let's say, you've got 10 data points in that curve. For each curve, you're trying to learn 4 parameters for each of the Delta Gs, which turns into 3 equilibrium constants, maybe even describe the system that way. Problem, though, is that's really actually a pretty challenging statistical problem to do. Um, because there's a degeneracy here, right? You introduce mutation and it shifts the equilibrium to the left. You don't know if it shifted the equilibrium to the left because it's stabilized to the balance state or it destabilized the unbound state, right? So a shift in equilibrium, you don't know what structural change it has. That is where a recent insight that we had actually comes into play, unless you fill in this hole in the middle. And the thing that we discovered was, we reason about, was that you can get interesting coupling between the effects of mutations, or epistasis, due to redistribution of the conformational ensemble. And so the basic idea is that if you have the observation that led to it, if you have two mutations that have no effect on their own, but together, they give a completely different effect. one explanation for that is they're having different effects on different confirmations. Really good example would be destabilizing mutations, right? Mutation one can be destabilizing, it's destabilizing the native state, but not so much that the native state isn't civil one you see. Mutation 2 could be destabilizing. It's destabilizing the native state, but not so much that you can't see it. When you put them down together, they're both destabilized native states extensively, and you reveal the unfolded state as a new ground state in the system. So, what you're seeing there is a rerating the ensemble between the folded and the unfolded state. But really, this could happen between any collection of confirmations, right? We could replace the unfolded state with a new functional form, right? So this new functional form comes about when it happens, and it's actually something we've observed experimentally over in evolution. The question, though, then, that we have is, what is it? What does that have to do with our inference? Well, if mutations can lead to coupling by redistributing the ensemble, and that leads to apostasis, sorry, if mutations that redistribute the ensemble lead to apostasis, maybe we could use apostasis to learn about the conformational ensemble, and thus learn about these equilibrium constants. And what we found, actually, we can show this in a pretty straightforward way, that there's, if you just think about the types of coupling that might happen in a system like this, there's a few different possibilities. mutations have some sort of through space, through structure coupling, that happens in one structure. That will be reflected as epistasis in the baselines when you're basically all one structure and the other. Um, Uh, you could also have epistasis that changes as a function of, uh, allosteric vector. That reflects ensemble redistribution. And so, what our premise is, is that if we measure mutant cycles as a function of IPTG, and measure fractional occupancy, we're going to be getting the data that we need to actually train the model to learn the equilibrium constants describing the system. So that, uh, we can then, the input to this would be a finally, a trained model where you put in a sequence on the one side. It runs through structural information, tracks, train tracks, and structural information to give you equilibrium constants. Those equilibrium constants can then be used to calculate function. So sequence goes to function. And what we're trying to do then is demonstrate that's true. So what are some preliminary data that we have? The preliminated it that we have is twofold. The 1st is we've developed this massive experiment, where we have measured 60 different data points for 209, sorry, 120 data points. So 2 bio replicates of 60 for 209,000 different mutant cycles inside the lack of pressor. So these are, we know that wild type effect, the effects of the individual mutations and the pairways effect. And we've measured this at 8 different IPG concentrations, under 2 selective markers, so a positive conditional selective marker, and a negative conditional selective marker. And we have a sophisticated linking function that links from bacterial growth to binding. So, we could think about this too, like, pretty good approximation. We have measured the binding profile as a function of IPDG for 209,000 variants of lack of pressure. So that's a really great piece of data, because we can look at this and we can actually pull out things like, oh, look, there's apostasis as a function of concentration. Uh, that reflects redistribution of the ensemble, for we can see things like contacts. Um, the, uh, so that's a really great piece of input. Uh, the other preliminary data that we have is, uh, we decided to, we're going to, what we're going to do in this, uh, calculation is actually adapt, uh, an approach that was pioneered by thermal MPNN, which does transfer learning to take, uh, protein of PNN and train it on thermodynamic values. We're going to do the same thing to, instead of learning equilibrium that, you're going to learn equilibrium constants as a hidden variable that's reproducing our binding measurements. But before we even did that, we said, well, let's just, this is effectively an energetic confirmational stability thing. introduce mutations, change the stability of the different confirmations, and that's from 5 there. So we ran that model and showed that we can actually reproduce our data, quantitative. It's not perfect, but with a very simple model, we can reproduce binding. So with these two pieces of information, we're now positioned to bolt this whole system together, and use transfer learning approach to reweight each of the energies here, and to take the outputs from multiple runs of ligand and PNN and actually predict function.  
  
So let's actually go through the computational pipeline that we're envisioning. We take each of the 4 structures in the lack repressor ensemble, the high affinity form, the high affinity form bound to DNA, the low affinity form, and the low affinity form bound to IPTG. We take those 4 structures and we feed them individually through ligand MPNN. This generates a fixed collection of features that are then going to be the input to our inputs. And we then label those sequences, those things with protein sequences. I need to actually think through how to do this. Yeah, overall idea. I'm actually sure how to do the sequence mapping, so we'll come back to that. But the idea would be we can use feature one, our reference structure, as an input. We're going to hold that. And then the other structures will just take as the difference. So, structure 2 features minus structure one features. Structure 3 features minus structure one features. So what we have is a collection of features, major features, and then perturbations to those features depending on different structures. Um. For each training sequence, we then label those features according to their sequence identity. That's the part that I'm actually realizing I'm a little fuzzy on, so I've got to think through. Um, and run that through a, all of those features, feature one, Delta feature 2, Delta feature 3, et cetera, through a light attention block. And what that will do is take this, these high dimensional features and their differences and reduce it down to a manageable, small number of values. A scalar vector or a vector of scalars. Um, and then we take those features and we run them through a multi-layer perceptron, another small neural network. And the idea with that is it will reduce these to a collection of free energies. And so, uh, the free energies that we will get out of this are what is the pre-energy of the, um, 1st structure. And then what are the changes in the free energy for each of the individual structures? So what's the difference in energy between, uh, one, that's different to energy between, uh, 2 and one, cetera? We can then take those free energies that we calculate. Um, and we can then uh, take the differences in those energies to give us equilibrium constants. So, for example, if structure one is the high affinity form, uh, not bound to DNA, and structure 2 is a high energy, uh, energy affinity form bound to DNA. Uh, the, uh, We would get the energy change, the energy for the wild type structure, H form, and then the difference in the energy when you bring them together into the HD form. of a balance form. That, Delta G, not prime, can then be converted into an equilibrium concept. What is the binding constant for the DNA protein interaction, which can then be fed forward?  
